DOC: Add context and instructions to `README` (#6)
brainhackorg/brainmatch: README.md

# brainmatch
Event project requirement-contributor request matching toolkit.

## Introduction

The purpose of these scripts is to find matches between projects submitted to

> a Brainhack Global event and the participants in that event. The match works
> by scoring the matches between a project's requirements (e.g. topic, required
> skills or tools) and the participant's skills or background and interests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a Brainhack Global event and the participants in that event. For each participant and project, the algorithm generates a score based on the matches between a project's requirements (e.g. topic, required
skills or tools) and the participant's skills or background and interests.
```

Author: Done in 3038215.

Once the result is generated, the Brainhack Global event organizers will be

> able to send participants an email with the project information that
> potentially fit them better within the context of the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
able to send participants an email with information about the projects that
potentially fit them better within the context of the event.
```

Author: Done in 3038215.

## Context

The tools assume that the projects submitted as issues to the [https://github.com/brainhackorg/global2020](https://github.com/brainhackorg/global2020)
repository have been labelled correctly, meaning that they have been assigned
to a given Brainhack Global event, that they have been already published to the

> website, and they contain the appropriate labels concerning their topic and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
website, and that they contain the appropriate labels concerning their topic and
```

Author: Done in 3038215.

required skills and tools.

> Similarly, it assumed that your Brainhack Global event participant data is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, it assumes that your Brainhack Global event participant data is
```

Author: Done in 3038215.

available as a `CSV` file, and that for each participant it contains the data
that will allow matching them to a project. That is, it will contain
information about the participants' skills or background and interests.

> Note that in order for the scripts to work, the relevant participant data with
> respect to the projects needs to match exactly with the available labels in the
> project data in the [https://github.com/brainhackorg/global2020](https://github.com/brainhackorg/global2020) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in order for the scripts to work, the relevant participant data 
needs to perfectly match the available labels in the
project issues in [https://github.com/brainhackorg/global2020](https://github.com/brainhackorg/global2020).
```

Author: Done in 3038215.

The scoring method does not currently take into account the required level of
expertise for a project, nor is the participant's desired project type taken
into account.

## Instructions

In order to obtain the project-participant matches, you will need to:

1. Pull the project data locally, by calling the `tools/pull_issues.sh` script.
The script will output a `TSV` file containing all relevant data from all
existing projects in the [https://github.com/brainhackorg/global2020](https://github.com/brainhackorg/global2020)
issues.

1. Your registration form is likely to use some custom text to gather the
required participant information. These data are expected to be readable as
separate data pieces whose headings or titles can be matched to some standard
fields used in the scripts so that the appropriate data can be retrieved for

> finding the matches.

Reviewer: This sentence sounds a bit complicated. Maybe splitting it into two sentences improves readability.

Author: Done in 3038215.

Since these headings may be variable across events, we expect you to provide a
mapping between them and the standard fields used in the scripts as a `JSON`
file. These standard fields are the following:

```
"email_address_field":,
"experience_programming_field":,
"experience_modality_field":,
"experience_tools_field":,
"experience_topic_field":,
"experience_git_skills_field":,
"desired_programming_field":,
"desired_modality_field":,
"desired_tools_field":,
"desired_topic_field":
```

Assuming that your Brainhack Global local event label is `bhg:donostia_esp_1`
(i.e. you are organizing the BHG Donostia event); the project data file pulled
was called `data/projects.tsv`; your participant registration data is contained
in `data/event_registration.csv`; the mapping of your custom fields to the
standard fields is contained in `data/fields.json`; you are naming your output
file `data/match.csv`; and that you would like to additionally restrict the
score sorting to a top-5, you will be calling the script as:

```
python brainmatch.py
    bhg:boston_usa_1
    data/projects.tsv
    data/participant_registration.csv
    data/fields.json
    data/match.csv
    --n 5
```

> The script will write the result of the project requirement-contributor match

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script will write the result of the project-contributor match
```

Author: Done in 3038215.
